In the second example I would like
to show you, I will show you how you
can use the same data from the descriptive
part, and actually get a completely
different conclusion, and actually make a
different recommendation for the company.
And this is the power of the prescription.
You can use different, or the same data,
but to achieve different goals and
take different action.
So let's say now we wanna maximize
the revenue by the company.
Most companies actually don't wanna
maximize the amount of the product they
sell, but they show you they want
to make the most money, right, or
generate the most revenue
by selling a product.
We can use a demand curve that
Professor Wachter has shown you,
to estimate actually, also what
will be the revenue of the company,
not only how much product will be sold.
So let's see how we can do that.
The first thing we would like to do, is
define the goal, as we defined it before.
And the goal is to maximize revenue,
unlike in the previous example
where we try to maximize quantity.
The other thing we need
to define is the action.
And the action is again,
the same action as before.
Setting the price, or changing the price.
And the question is,
how does changing a price impact the
revenue generated from selling a product?
In this case, we need a model.
We need a model to describe what is the
relationship between setting prices and
setting quantities of product,
to generating revenue by a company.
And now we need to think a little bit, and
think what happens when we increase or
decrease the price of a product,
for the revenue of a company?
Now one thing you're asking,
how do we calculate revenue, perhaps?
Well you take the amount of a product
sold, the quantity, and you multiply it
by the price, and this is the total
revenue generated by the company.
So in this case,
we have two forces operating here.
What happens, for example,
when we decrease the price?
When we decrease the price, as we've seen
before, the quantity sold goes up, right?
So we sell higher
quantities of the product.
But on the other hand,
the amount of money were making for
each item sold is lower,
because we decreased the price.
So when we multiply both,
one side of the multiplication goes up,
which is the quantity, and the other side,
which is the price, goes down.
And we can't really tell if
the revenue will go up, or going down,
by decreasing the price.
The same thing happens when
we increase the price.
If you increase the price,
the quantity sold goes down,
but the price per item, with the revenue
generated per item, goes up.
And again, we can't really tell if
it's better to increase the price, or
decrease the price.
Now what I would like to point out,
is this is called a trade-off,
where you change, you make one action,
you set a price, but
the revenue or
the goal of the company might go up, or
it might go down, depending on
what the actual result will be.
And the question is,
how can we find the price that
generates the maximum revenue for us?
So let's see how we can do that.
One thing we would like to do,
is we can use Excel and try to say, for
each price, we actually create a table,
as you can see, the bottom of the slide.
For each price, what would be the quantity
sold, which is the column called Demand,
and what would be the revenue,
where we maximize the demand by the price.
So for example, you could see that for
a price of $3.00,
the demand will be 7.43 items,
and the total revenue will be $22.29.
And if we increase the price more and
more, the revenue goes up and
up, but
at some point the revenue goes down.
And the question is, can we find the price
that generates the maximum revenue?
Now in this table, it's quite simple.
We can just go by the order of the prices,
and
see which one generates
the maximum amount.
But in the general case,
problems can be very hard to solve.
A lot of variables to change, many actions
to take, many it's not a discrete.
One way we can do it and solve it,
is try to take a graphical approach,
and find where the maximum revenue is.
So in this slide, what you will see
is where I drew a graph that takes
the previous table from
the previous slide, and
generates a graph where you can see
the actual revenue on the y-axis,
as a function of the price
changing on the x-axis.
And you can see, for
example, that in this case,
the maximum revenue is generated
with approximately a price of $5.50.
How do we find this maximum?
We try to find the point in
the graph which is maximized.
Here it's highlighted by this arrow, and
then we take the dashed line,
basically going to the bottom,
finding on the x-axis the price
that generates this revenue.
And this is the price we're
saying is gonna maximize revenue,
in this case $5.50.
So what we've done so far, we've discussed
what a problem is that we would like to
solve, and get a prescription for.
A problem is three parts.
It has a goal to optimize,
which can be to maximize,
to minimize,
to do something with the quantity.
It has actions the company or
the consumer can take.
It can be changing the price,
producing product,
maybe showing an ad to someone,
but different actions.
And it has a model that links the action,
and how they impact the different goals,
or the different objectives
we're trying to optimize.
Using the same descriptive analytics that
you've seen in the previous lectures,
we arrived at two different conclusions.
If you want to maximize the quantity sold,
you should set a zero price.
You should give your product for free.
If you wanna maximize the revenue
generated by selling a product,
actually you wanna set a price of $5.50.
The next thing I would like to do in the
next lecture, is talking about parameters,
and how different parts of
the model impact the decision and
recommendation we will give the company.
And the next one after that,
we will discuss market structure.
Can we actually take the descriptive data,
and find the optimal price,
without really knowing how the customers
interact with the product in the market?